You're checking your ex's social media
trying to find out if that girl in the
background is just a friend. Your bestie
says things like,
>> "You look good today. Did you gain
weight? I love how you don't even try.
You're so introvert."
>> And you laugh it off like it didn't land
exactly where it was meant to. You are
rereading old messages, replaying old
conversations in your head, and convince
yourself that this time you overreacted.
This time you were being too much.
Congratulations, girl. You're hating
yourself. The good thing you don't hate
yourself on purpose. Once you see the
pattern clearly, you can decide to
either break it or stay the same
pathetic girl that you're right now. Hi
guys, and welcome back to my channel. If
you're new here, my name is Michaela.
And just to say from the very get-go, I
don't want to offend you to make you
feel bad. I want that my words hit right
there where they should because you're
here on this channel to grow, become a
better version of yourself, and create
the life you want. Very important side
note, you cannot live the life you want
if you treat yourself like an
unimportant peasant or side character
that does not deserve everything you
desire. Now that's why in today's video
I want to get into self-sabotage because
self-sabotage is not just some fancy
word that we are using on social media
to make things sound more intelligent.
No, self-sabotage is real. Okay. So the
first thing I want you to understand is
that many times self-sabotage comes from
our emotions and us reacting to
emotions. Right now, let's say you are
triggered because you are on the phone
with your exartner.
>> I don't know why you're on the phone
with him.
>> And you hear some feminine voice in the
background. You're getting instantly
triggered and thinking, who is this? Is
this his new girlfriend? I want to know
who this is. And you're asking him, "Who
is this girl? What is she doing there?
Are you having a new girlfriend?" And
he's obviously lying. You're getting
angry because he's not telling you the
truth
>> that to be honest, he does not even owe
you. You're not together anymore.
>> Anyways, you are triggered and your body
is reacting to that trigger with an
emotion. Sadness, anger, disappointment,
frustration. Now, you can either choose
to react on those emotions, which would
be asking him who this girl is, why he
is not being honest with you, trying to
play detective and find out what is
happening, what he's really up to, where
he is. or you try to understand what
this emotion is telling you. If it's
anger, it's telling you to move to
change something. It is energy that you
can put into something else. Is it
sadness? It's telling you that you need
to look deeper. You need to understand
what exactly is so painful.
Self-sabotage can look for everyone
completely different because maybe your
ways of sabotaging yourself is my way of
dealing with something healthy and the
other way around. in any way we are
self-sabotaging. And I think I'm pretty
sure you know where you're sabotaging.
When you're more spending time worrying
about something, ruminating your
thoughts about what is wrong, what could
happen wrong, how bad your life is, and
how much better it could be, then you're
definitely sabotaging yourself. Okay.
The thing is, you choose where you put
your energy and attention into right
now. If you keep on reacting to emotions
without understanding why this emotion
arises and what it actually is and what
does it tell you, what is it here for?
Then of course you tend to put your
energy into things that are not creating
the life you want to have. You're
putting your energy into those emotions
and those emotions create a life that
feels like you are a passenger of it.
you're passively in this life that is
happening to you. But once you
understand, hey, this emotion is just an
emotion. It arises, but it does not
determine what I do right now, what I
say right now, how I act right now. Then
you start to create the life you want.
That's the point when you start to
understand you are the director and
creator of the life you want. And it all
starts with your emotions. Now, let's
say you are talking to your ex on the
phone for whatever reason. You're
talking to him and you hear some female
voice in the background. You're asking
him. He says, "No, of course not. There
was no woman. There was no female voice.
This is all in your imagination. You
know he's lying." Now, you have two
options. You are getting angry. Start an
argument. Want to prove your point that
you are right and he needs to tell you
right now what's the truth. or you
understand these emotions arise for a
reason. Yes, but it does not mean you
need to react to them as they happen
right in front of you. Think about you
wanting to be more fit going to the gym.
When the emotion arises that you're sad,
that you're frustrated, that you're
bored, you suddenly do not want to go to
the gym anymore. You want to sit at
home, chill, relax, and do nothing. But
ultimately, you're sabotaging yourself
because you are reacting right onto this
emotion without even understanding what
this emotion wants to tell you. So
instead, you can do the exact opposite.
You do what you logically know you want.
When you have a long-term vision and you
know where you want to go in life, then
obviously it's more easy to not react to
those emotions in the moment and
understand what you want long term is
way more important. It has a bigger
weight than the short-term gratification
on reacting on that emotion. Another
thing is that every time you are
reacting on this emotion, obviously
something always turns out in a bad way.
Let's say you're starting now this
argument with your ex. He's starting to
argue begging. You're starting crying.
You're having a bigger argument. Worst
case, it takes hours for you to settle
this argument. Or maybe you never settle
this argument. At the end of the day,
you spend so much time on something that
does nothing to your future. Or do you
want to have arguments with your
exartner that you deep down know is not
meant for you? Do you want to have those
in your future? No, you don't.
>> There are men waiting for you. You won't
have any argument with. They love you
the right way. Okay. So, you need to
really understand your emotions and what
they are here for and that you are not
your emotion. Your emotions are part of
you. They are your experience. But the
same way as you experience a movie or
something on the TV, it does not impact
your life if you do not let it. It's
very very important that you feel them
because emotions not being felt, not
being expressed are emotions that are
staying stuck in the body. Feel the
anger, feel the sadness, feel the
frustrating and overwhelming chattering
of your mind. feel it, but withstand
reacting to it. Withstand pushing it
away. Sit with it. Sit with that
discomfort. That's how you process your
emotions. Another way is to walk them
out. Walk your emotions out. That's my
absolute favorite. I put on some music
and I go for a walk, a fast walk. I
completely zone out. I do not recognize
even anyone around me. I just walk and I
process my emotions. I feel how I go
from being so happy, being so grateful
to feeling so sad to feeling rage,
anger, sadness, frustration. I go
through all of the emotions that are
stuck in my body. I realize that every
time I feel something in my body. I feel
tension in my knees. I feel tension in
my neck. I feel tension in my shoulders.
That's a sign for me that emotions are
stuck in my body and they need to get
out. They are getting out with either
meditating or doing some workout, yoga,
walking, running. You need to get those
emotions out. If you do not get them
out, you will feel it in your body and
your body is always vocalizing what's
wrong. You just need to listen to it.
And let's be honest, this is difficult.
It's difficult for me every time
emotions are coming up to not react on
those emotions without suppressing and
avoiding them completely. Sometimes I
feel my emotions coming up. I feel
frustrated. I feel angry. I feel sad.
And I know reacting to that emotion
right now would not be beneficial for me
and my life. So what I do sometimes is
to avoid them completely. I go into my
phone and scroll on social media. I do
numbing. That's what many people do. We
are doing emotional numbing with
alcohol, cigarettes, social media, food,
with consuming behaviors. The most
important thing is that at some point
you are listening to it. Okay? Listen to
the signs your body gives you. Listen to
the pain you have in your body. When
you're feeling pain in your throat, it's
not by chance, by accident, or because
of the weather. It's most likely because
you're not speaking your truth. It's
most likely because you're swallowing
down things you do not want to swallow.
It's most likely because people keep
disrespecting you and you do not open
your mouth to defend yourself. If you
feel pain in your shoulders, what's so
heavy on your shoulders? What are you
carrying that is so heavy? Ask yourself
why do I feel this pain? What am I
carrying? If you feel pain in your
knees, guess what? You do not want to
move on in life. You are traumatized by
something where you could not move on in
life. And you're sabotaging yourself by
not moving. By not letting those
emotions flow out. I'm going for a walk.
Knee pain is gone. If it's coming back,
I know exactly there is an emotion still
stuck. I need to do something. I do
yoga. Yoga helps me so much and helped
me so much throughout my life. Through
every heartbreak, through every trauma,
through every challenge in my life, I
was doing yoga. Why? Because our
emotions, our traumas are stuck in our
muscles. Literally, you're going to do
yourself a big favor if you listen to
the signs your body gives you. Now the
next thing is that sometimes we're
attaching these desires, goals to
unrealistic expectations on how it will
change our life. Now be clear, there is
no unrealistic goal or desire that you
can have. Everything you desire, you
actually can achieve and have. But there
is an unrealistic expectation. Okay.
What I mean by that is for example, you
think that once you have that partner
that loves you forever, you will finally
not be depressive anymore. Once you have
that amount of money in your bank
account, you will finally feel free. You
will finally feel relaxed. Once you
finally have 1 million views and
subscribers, you will finally feel
worthy of creating more content. you
will finally feel cherished and loved.
These are unrealistic expectations
because if you do not feel that right
now, nothing external will ever make you
feel that way.
>> You will probably think now I'm crazy,
but I'm not. It's the truth. Okay?
>> I have experienced it myself many, many
times. And I was wondering why am I
still feeling this way? Now I have this
amount of money in my bank account. I
still feel like I'm not safe. I'm not
free. I still feel that same feeling.
And this is exactly why many people burn
out. They think something in the
external will make them be relieved from
all their worries. And that's just not
the case. Now, let's say you have this
unrealistic goal that once you're being
loved the right way, you're finally
seeing your value and not being
depressive anymore. And of course, every
single rejection will feel more
terrifying because it will make you feel
like, "Oh my god, I will be depressive
for the rest of my life. I will never
see my true value." So, you're literally
kind of putting all your eggs in one
basket. And of course, when this basket
with all your eggs, all your hopes, all
your desires is slightly threatened,
you're going crazy. You're going insane.
And that's the way you're going to
sabotage yourself. And the truth is that
dating is trial and error. You will
experience rejection if you want it or
not. Now, to protect yourself, your
brain has to validate that experience
with saying all men are trash or being
jealous. Whenever you see someone being
in a healthy, successful relationship,
you think something must be wrong. They
are not happy. They just act like
they're happy. everywhere you see a
confirmation of what your root belief in
that case is. For example, healthy love
does not exist. And then even when
you're in a relationship, you're
sabotaging that relationship because
your brain cannot even comprehend that
state of having. You have been so long
in the state of wanting something that
is lifechanging, your brain can simply
not comprehend that state of actually
having it. and then facing the truth
that with having it, it actually did not
save you from your depression. It
actually did not completely change your
life, your state of being. This is again
the confirmation that true love doesn't
exist and men are all trash. And that's
when you start to sabotage the
relationship, doubting your partner, not
trusting your partner for no reason at
all, simply not even getting into a
relationship, so on so forth. Another
thing is that sometimes we sabotage
because of familiar patterns. Meaning
that if you are used to relationships
that are abusive and toxic, of course,
you are going to choose abusive and
toxic partners in the future if you do
not start to heal that pattern. Let's
say you have been through a relationship
when you were younger and this boy broke
your heart completely. It shattered into
pieces. Close your eyes and reexperience
that moment when your heart broke.
Reexperience every single moment and
feel that feeling again. But act in a
different way. Act with that mindset
that you have today with the
understanding that that time you were
acting exactly from that perspective and
point of view with the mindset you had
that day, that time and year. You were
acting as the best version of yourself
that time. And now you were growing,
evolving, you have a different mindset.
You can react to this circumstance, to
this heartbreak in a different way. And
that's exactly how you rewire your brain
so you're not choosing any more toxic
abusive patterns. Of course, this is not
a one-time thing. Maybe you need to go
through different experiences over and
over again until there is no emotional
reaction anymore. The next step is then
to reexperience and reestablish trust in
that field. Let's go back to
relationships. You have been
traumatized. The only way how you can
heal that pattern is through having a
healthy relationship. Okay? Many people
including me are trying to compensate
that missing trust for example in
relationships with earning a lot of
money or having a lot of success. You
cannot compensate that. It's impossible.
You need to reestablish the trust in the
field where you lost it. Now, that's
another way of self-sabotaging. If
you're trying to gain trust in
relationships by earning more money,
that's how men do it, right? Many men,
they are just traumatized. They are
insecure. They're scared of pain. Maybe
they have been heartbroken once. Now
what they're doing trying to
overcompensate with making a lot of
money and they think this will get them
the trust from the woman and this will
get them the woman that will never leave
which is not true. Okay, you cannot heal
the pattern from one place with
overcompensating in another place. The
thing I want you to take away from this
video is that every time you're
experiencing a wave of emotion, instead
of reacting to it, give yourself a few
seconds and ask yourself, why do I feel
this? And what does it want to tell me?
Because even our self-sabotaging
behaviors are telling us something. Even
if it's not an emotion, but for example,
overwork. If you're constantly overwork
just to be busy, this is
self-sabotaging. If doing more work
would make you more money and more
successful, construction workers would
be the richest people on earth, doing
more than necessary is most of the time
a sabotaging behavior to get you busy,
to not make you look inside what's
missing. When you're looking for things
outside, trying to fill that hole with
things from outside, being busy, money,
food, consume, phone, social media, all
you're trying is to fill that hole that
you have inside from outside. And even
though that's satisfying for a quick
moment, even though that feels good for
a while, you are not going to feel well
long term. And you're definitely not
building the life you desire. You do not
want a life working 24/7.
You want to relax. Even though it might
feels good now to work a lot, do a lot,
you get some success, at some point you
will burn out and you want to slow down.
At some point you will want maybe a
family. You want to spend time with your
friends, but you won't even allow
yourself to do that because of that
self-sabotaging behavior. It's going to
tell you that you are not going to be
successful if you're not doing
everything possible 24/7. If you're
sleeping too much, you're not going to
be successful. These are self-sabotaging
thoughts. If you don't understand your
behavior, it creates thoughts. And those
thoughts, of course, are creating your
reality. If you keep thinking that
you're not going to be successful. If
you keep being jealous of people that
have what you want instead of being
inspired by them, you're not going to
get what they have. If you keep
attaching bad emotions, thoughts, and
behaviors to the things you want, you
are not going to get it. And that's why
I told you, if you keep doing things
that won't get you closer to the goals
and life and desires you want, you're
actually hating yourself. You're giving
yourself a permission slip to be
miserable and pathetic. And this is not
the permission slip you want. All in
all, I want you to understand that
self-sabotage is real and we are all
doing it. It's just a question of how do
you want to deal with it in the future.
What do you want to change? How do you
want to go about things and how do you
want to create your life and make it
happen in your favor and for you instead
of letting it happen to you. Anyways
guys, I hope this could help. Thank you
so much for watching and I see you in my
next video. Bye-bye.